# MakeASite
Make a site! It's better to have your own website detached from a corporation, even if you use social media more than updating your website. With all of these crazy laws and regulations, you never know what will happen to your stuff, or how you'll be restricted from accessing your own data.

What i mean by making a site is that you will be **making** a site, not using a company's website builder. It's just as resilient as a social media profile if you're using something like Google Sites or Wix.

The ultimate option in terms of being in control of what you host is by using a computer or server in your own home to host your site. This option isn't viable for most of the population though, so what will we use?

Meh options are "pages" hosts or "serverless" hosts which are the likes of GitHub Pages, CloudFlare Pages/Workers, Vercel, Netlify, Heroku...   They host your static sites and your frontends for you, usually connected to a Git repository of some kind. However, you're still tying your site to a large company. It's really on the same level as using a site builder, it's slightly higher if you keep a local copy of your repository instead of purely working in the browsser. These could also be susceptible to being taken down by a government body.

Good option is paying for a hosting plan. Most hosting plans use cPanel or DirectAdmin, there's no way around using these unless you use something like NearlyFreeSpeech. I've never used them myself, but lots of people say they're good. You can try them - you pay for what you use instead of paying for a plan. Other hosting plans you can pay for are Hostinger, x10... there are way too many. And better than paying for shared/managed hosting, is getting your own VPS - but it's similar to hosting your own server at home, you have to setup the webserver software, PHP/node.js/ROR/Django/Flask, mariadb/mysql/postgres/mongodb... it gets complicated fast for someone who isn't used to it and just wants to put up a single site. You could use panels like aaPanel to quickly spin up a WordPress site and an email server if you really wanted to.

There is only one great free service i could recommend to someone who wants to start out making their own sites. I'm from the United States, I feel kind of lost most of the time navigating everyone's sites, but still it's a fantastic free option with unbeatable features. Without regenerating your website, editing each file to add a single link to your header, or any of that bullshit, you can just use web1.0hosting.net to host a static site, and it's VERY accessible. you can edit and view your site from literally any computer with access to the Internet; all the way from a DOS computer to the newest budget Android phone. it doesn't matter what device you're on. It comes with HamsterCMS if you want to edit your site visually, or you can use your own HTML with Server Side Includes, as well as using some preset scripts like blog, photo gallery, music library, guestbook, and chat. you can get free subdomains as well as linking your own custom domain. I currently use them to host the frontend of my site, while some APIs are hosted on my server at home. Their server is in Finland.

But if you want free PHP hosting, i recommend x10hosting. they have higher limits than web1.0hosting.net and are more complicated, as well as not compatible with old computers, but you can do more - you can make your own databases and write and run your own PHP websites. you can install scripts like WordPress, and you can install HamsterCMS if you really wanted to. I used them for almost 2 and a half years back when I was starting out making my own websites, and they're better than any iFastNet based free hosting service.

With all that being said, you should make your own site to preserve important things digitally. Make sure to backup your sites regularly, you never know what could happen on today's internet. Stay safe out there and stay yourself!!
